Add a post on the state of the log4j CVE in the Scala ecosystem. (#1315)
scala/scala-lang: _posts/2021-12-16-state-of-log4j-in-scala-ecosystem.md

---
category: blog-detail
post-type: blog
by: Sébastien Doeraene, Adrien Piquerez
title: "The state of the log4j CVE in the Scala ecosystem"
---

> The computer science world is currently turned upside down over a very widespread vulnerability in log4j v2, as well as a followup one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two very widespread vulnerabilities in log4j v2 are wreaking havoc the JVM ecosystem
```
Maybe a bit less dramatic

---
category: blog-detail
post-type: blog
by: Sébastien Doeraene, Adrien Piquerez
title: "The state of the log4j CVE in the Scala ecosystem"
---

Two very widespread vulnerabilities in log4j v2 are wreaking havoc in the JVM ecosystem.
The vulnerabilities are registered as [CVE-2021-44228](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-44228) and [CVE-2021-45046](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-45046).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The vulnerability allows unauthenticated remote code execution, and it is triggered when a specially crafted string provided by the attacker through a variety of different input vectors. For further technical guidance, see [Guidance for preventing, detecting, and hunting for CVE-2021-44228 Log4j 2 exploitation](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/12/11/guidance-for-preventing-detecting-and-hunting-for-cve-2021-44228-log4j-2-exploitation/) for example.

```

A project is affected by the log4j vulnerabilities if it contains a vulnerable version of a log4j artifact on its classpath.

You may find below a non-comprenhensive list of core Scala tools and libraries known to be affected by the vulnerability, and in which version (if any) it is addressed.

We also give some useful tasks and settings to address the vulnerabilities in applications built with sbt, Mill or Maven.

## State of core tools and libraries

### Disclaimer

The following information is provided AS IS, without any warranty of any kind, for your convenience.
A proper security assessment of any CVE, including the log4j vulnerabilities, remains your sole responsibility.

### Affected tools and libraries with fix available

The following core tools and libraries have versions affected by the log4j vulnerability, but have published newer versions with the appropriate patches.
It is recommended that you upgrade to these versions as soon as possible.

If this is not possible, for libraries, see the tip below on how to force the dependency of log4j.

#### Tools

> | Artifact or tool name | Fixed in version |
> |-----------------------|------------------|
> | sbt | 1.5.7 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Artifact or tool name | Affected versions | Fixed in version |
|----------------------|------------------|------------------|
| sbt | 1.x < 1.5.7 | 1.5.7 |

Log4j is not enabled by default since sbt 1.4.0, but all users are recommended to upgrade to the latest fixed version. Any organization using sbt as part of CI/CD (continuous integration and delivery), automated publishing, and projects that expose TCP/IP entry point during testing may be most vulnerable to an exploit.
```

#### Libraries

| Organization | Artifact or tool name | Fixed in version |
|--------------|-----------------------|------------------|
| TBD |  |  |

### Affected tools and libraries without known fix available

The following core tools and libraries are affected by the log4j vulnerability, and have not yet published an updated version with the appropriate patches.
Consult the CVEs to use any other applicable mitigation that may apply in your case.

It may also be possible to force the dependency of log4j, as explained above.

| Organization | Artifact name |
|--------------|---------------|
| none known so far | |

## Useful sbt tasks and settings

> If your application is written in sbt, which is common in the Scala ecosystem, here are some information on how to identify the classpath of your application, and how to force an upgrade of the log4j dependencies.

Reviewer 3: s/written in sbt/built with sbt/

Reviewer 3: s/identify the classpath/determine the classpath/

### `fullClasspath`

> The task `fullClasspath`, properly scoped to a project and a configuration, gives the final, full classpath with which your project is executed.

Reviewer 2: Should we recommend `externalClasspath` instead? For a large project, this would cut down some noise coming from internal (other subprojects) classpath.

Author: I added a sentence to suggest `externalClasspath` in some cases for large builds. Let me know if it looks accurate to you.

A typical invocation looks like

```
$ sbt
> show myProject/Compile/fullClasspath
[info] * Attributed(.../myProject/target/scala-2.12/sbt-1.0/classes)
...
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/logging/log4j/log4j-api/2.11.2/log4j-api-2.11.2.jar)
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/logging/log4j/log4j-core/2.11.2/log4j-core-2.11.2.jar)
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/logging/log4j/log4j-slf4j-impl/2.11.2/log4j-slf4j-impl-2.11.2.jar)
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/scala-sbt/librarymanagement-core_2.12/1.5.3/librarymanagement-core_2.12-1.5.3.jar)
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/scala-sbt/librarymanagement-ivy_2.12/1.5.3/librarymanagement-ivy_2.12-1.5.3.jar)
[info] * Attributed(.../.cache/coursier/v1/https/repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/scala-sbt/compiler-interface/1.5.7/compiler-interface-1.5.7.jar)
...
[success] Total time: 0 s, completed Dec 16, 2021 11:07:28 AM
```

> With older versions of sbt, the command looks like

Reviewer 3: How old, exactly? ("version x.y or earlier")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prior to sbt 1.1.0, the command looks like
```

---
category: blog-detail
post-type: blog
by: Sébastien Doeraene, Adrien Piquerez
title: "The state of the log4j CVE in the Scala ecosystem"
---

Two very widespread vulnerabilities in log4j v2 are wreaking havoc in the JVM ecosystem.
The vulnerabilities are registered as [CVE-2021-44228](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-44228) and [CVE-2021-45046](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-45046).

The vulnerability allows unauthenticated remote code execution, and it is triggered when a specially crafted string provided by the attacker through a variety of different input vectors.
For further technical guidance, see [Guidance for preventing, detecting, and hunting for CVE-2021-44228 Log4j 2 exploitation](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2021/12/11/guidance-for-preventing-detecting-and-hunting-for-cve-2021-44228-log4j-2-exploitation/) for example.

A project is affected by the log4j vulnerabilities if it contains a vulnerable version of a log4j artifact on its classpath.

> You may find below a non-comprenhensive list of core Scala tools and libraries known to be affected by the vulnerability, and in which version (if any) it is addressed.

Reviewer 4: non-comprehensive
